# ID: 129 - Improper Validation of Array Index
<h5>Name</h5>Improper Validation of Array Index
<h5>Weakness</h5>Base
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The product uses untrusted input when calculating or using an array index, but the product does not validate or incorrectly validates the index to ensure the index references a valid position within the array.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>null
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:20:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:20:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:20:VIEW ID:1003:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:CanPrecede:CWE ID:119:VIEW ID:1000::NATURE:CanPrecede:CWE ID:823:VIEW ID:1000::NATURE:CanPrecede:CWE ID:789:VIEW ID:1000::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>::ORDINALITY:Resultant:DESCRIPTION:The most common condition situation leading to an out-of-bounds array index is the use of loop index variables as buffer indexes. If the end condition for the loop is subject to a flaw, the index can grow or shrink unbounded, therefore causing a buffer overflow or underflow. Another common situation leading to this condition is the use of a function's return value, or the resulting value of a calculation directly as an index in to a buffer.::
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>::LANGUAGE NAME:C:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Often::LANGUAGE NAME:C++:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Often:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>::TERM:out-of-bounds array index:DESCRIPTION:::TERM:index-out-of-range:DESCRIPTION:::TERM:array index underflow:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Availability:TECHNICAL IMPACT:DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:Integrity Availability DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart Use of an index that is outside the bounds of an array will very likely result in the corruption of relevant memory and perhaps instructions, leading to a crash, if the values are outside of the valid memory area.::SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Modify Memory:NOTE:Integrity Modify Memory If the memory corrupted is data, rather than instructions, the system will continue to function with improper values.::SCOPE:Confidentiality:SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Modify Memory Read Memory:NOTE:Confidentiality Integrity Modify Memory Read Memory Use of an index that is outside the bounds of an array can also trigger out-of-bounds read or write operations, or operations on the wrong objects; i.e., buffer overflows are not always the result. This may result in the exposure or modification of sensitive data.::SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Confidentiality:SCOPE:Availability:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands:NOTE:Integrity Confidentiality Availability Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands If the memory accessible by the attacker can be effectively controlled, it may be possible to execute arbitrary code, as with a standard buffer overflow and possibly without the use of large inputs if a precise index can be controlled.::SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Availability:SCOPE:Confidentiality:TECHNICAL IMPACT:DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands Read Memory Modify Memory:NOTE:Integrity Availability Confidentiality DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands Read Memory Modify Memory A single fault could allow either an overflow (CWE-788) or underflow (CWE-786) of the array index. What happens next will depend on the type of operation being performed out of bounds, but can expose sensitive information, cause a system crash, or possibly lead to arbitrary code execution.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:EFFECTIVENESS:High:DESCRIPTION:This weakness can often be detected using automated static analysis tools. Many modern tools use data flow analysis or constraint-based techniques to minimize the number of false positives. Automated static analysis generally does not account for environmental considerations when reporting out-of-bounds memory operations. This can make it difficult for users to determine which warnings should be investigated first. For example, an analysis tool might report array index errors that originate from command line arguments in a program that is not expected to run with setuid or other special privileges.::METHOD:Automated Dynamic Analysis:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:This weakness can be detected using dynamic tools and techniques that interact with the software using large test suites with many diverse inputs, such as fuzz testing (fuzzing), robustness testing, and fault injection. The software's operation may slow down, but it should not become unstable, crash, or generate incorrect results.::METHOD:Black Box:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Black box methods might not get the needed code coverage within limited time constraints, and a dynamic test might not produce any noticeable side effects even if it is successful.::
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use an input validation framework such as Struts or the OWASP ESAPI Validation API. If you use Struts, be mindful of weaknesses covered by the CWE-101 category.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Libraries or Frameworks:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use an input validation framework such as Struts or the OWASP ESAPI Validation API. If you use Struts, be mindful of weaknesses covered by the CWE-101 category.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in order to avoid CWE-602. Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely. Then, these modified values would be submitted to the server. Even though client-side checks provide minimal benefits with respect to server-side security, they are still useful. First, they can support intrusion detection. If the server receives input that should have been rejected by the client, then it may be an indication of an attack. Second, client-side error-checking can provide helpful feedback to the user about the expectations for valid input. Third, there may be a reduction in server-side processing time for accidental input errors, although this is typically a small savings.::PHASE:Requirements:STRATEGY:Language Selection:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid. For example, Ada allows the programmer to constrain the values of a variable and languages such as Java and Ruby will allow the programmer to handle exceptions when an out-of-bounds index is accessed.::PHASE:Operation:STRATEGY:Environment Hardening:EFFECTIVENESS:Defense in Depth:DESCRIPTION:Run or compile the software using features or extensions that randomly arrange the positions of a program's executable and libraries in memory. Because this makes the addresses unpredictable, it can prevent an attacker from reliably jumping to exploitable code. Examples include Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [REF-58] [REF-60] and Position-Independent Executables (PIE) [REF-64].::PHASE:Operation:STRATEGY:Environment Hardening:EFFECTIVENESS:Defense in Depth:DESCRIPTION:Use a CPU and operating system that offers Data Execution Protection (NX) or its equivalent [REF-60] [REF-61].::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When accessing a user-controlled array index, use a stringent range of values that are within the target array. Make sure that you do not allow negative values to be used. That is, verify the minimum as well as the maximum of the range of acceptable values.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Be especially careful to validate all input when invoking code that crosses language boundaries, such as from an interpreted language to native code. This could create an unexpected interaction between the language boundaries. Ensure that you are not violating any of the expectations of the language with which you are interfacing. For example, even though Java may not be susceptible to buffer overflows, providing a large argument in a call to native code might trigger an overflow.::PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:STRATEGY:Environment Hardening:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Run your code using the lowest privileges that are required to accomplish the necessary tasks [REF-76]. If possible, create isolated accounts with limited privileges that are only used for a single task. That way, a successful attack will not immediately give the attacker access to the rest of the software or its environment. For example, database applications rarely need to run as the database administrator, especially in day-to-day operations.::PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:STRATEGY:Sandbox or Jail:EFFECTIVENESS:Limited:DESCRIPTION:Run the code in a jail or similar sandbox environment that enforces strict boundaries between the process and the operating system. This may effectively restrict which files can be accessed in a particular directory or which commands can be executed by the software. OS-level examples include the Unix chroot jail, AppArmor, and SELinux. In general, managed code may provide some protection. For example, java.io.FilePermission in the Java SecurityManager allows the software to specify restrictions on file operations. This may not be a feasible solution, and it only limits the impact to the operating system; the rest of the application may still be subject to compromise. Be careful to avoid CWE-243 and other weaknesses related to jails.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2005-0369:DESCRIPTION:large ID in packet used as array index:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-0369REFERENCE:CVE-2001-1009:DESCRIPTION:negative array index as argument to POP LIST command:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-1009REFERENCE:CVE-2003-0721:DESCRIPTION:Integer signedness error leads to negative array index:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2003-0721REFERENCE:CVE-2004-1189:DESCRIPTION:product does not properly track a count and a maximum number, which can lead to resultant array index overflow.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-1189REFERENCE:CVE-2007-5756:DESCRIPTION:Chain: device driver for packet-capturing software allows access to an unintended IOCTL with resultant array index error.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-5756REFERENCE:CVE-2005-2456:DESCRIPTION:Chain: array index error (CWE-129) leads to deadlock (CWE-833):LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-2456
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>Memory::
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:CLASP:ENTRY NAME:Unchecked array indexing::::TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:INDEX - Array index overflow::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:ARR00-C:ENTRY NAME:Understand how arrays work::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:ARR30-C:ENTRY NAME:Do not form or use out-of-bounds pointers or array subscripts:MAPPING FIT:CWE More Specific::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:ARR38-C:ENTRY NAME:Do not add or subtract an integer to a pointer if the resulting value does not refer to a valid array element::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:INT32-C:ENTRY NAME:Ensure that operations on signed integers do not result in overflow::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT Perl Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:IDS32-PL:ENTRY NAME:Validate any integer that is used as an array index:MAPPING FIT:Imprecise::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP8:ENTRY NAME:Faulty Buffer Access::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::100::
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Relationship:NOTE:This weakness can precede uncontrolled memory allocation (CWE-789) in languages that automatically expand an array when an index is used that is larger than the size of the array, such as JavaScript.::::TYPE:Theoretical:NOTE:An improperly validated array index might lead directly to the always-incorrect behavior of access of array using out-of-bounds index.::

