# ID: 155 - Improper Neutralization of Wildcards or Matching Symbols
<h5>Name</h5>Improper Neutralization of Wildcards or Matching Symbols
<h5>Weakness</h5>Variant
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The software receives input from an upstream component, but it does not neutralize or incorrectly neutralizes special elements that could be interpreted as wildcards or matching symbols when they are sent to a downstream component.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>As data is parsed, an injected element may cause the process to take unexpected actions.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:138:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:138:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Unexpected State::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE::STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Developers should anticipate that wildcard or matching elements will be injected/removed/manipulated in the input vectors of their software system. Use an appropriate combination of black lists and whitelists to ensure only valid, expected and appropriate input is processed by the system.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Output Encoding:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:While it is risky to use dynamically-generated query strings, code, or commands that mix control and data together, sometimes it may be unavoidable. Properly quote arguments and escape any special characters within those arguments. The most conservative approach is to escape or filter all characters that do not pass an extremely strict whitelist (such as everything that is not alphanumeric or white space). If some special characters are still needed, such as white space, wrap each argument in quotes after the escaping/filtering step. Be careful of argument injection (CWE-88).::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass whitelist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0433:DESCRIPTION:Bypass file restrictions using wildcard character.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0433REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1010:DESCRIPTION:Bypass file restrictions using wildcard character.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1010REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0334:DESCRIPTION:Wildcards generate long string on expansion.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0334REFERENCE:CVE-2004-1962:DESCRIPTION:SQL injection involving /**/ sequences.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-1962
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Wildcard or Matching Element::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP24:ENTRY NAME:Tainted input to command::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Research Gap:NOTE:Under-studied.::

