# ID: 173 - Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding
<h5>Name</h5>Improper Handling of Alternate Encoding
<h5>Weakness</h5>Variant
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The software does not properly handle when an input uses an alternate encoding that is valid for the control sphere to which the input is being sent.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>null
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:172:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:172:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:CanPrecede:CWE ID:289:VIEW ID:1000::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Access Control:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Bypass Protection Mechanism::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Avoid making decisions based on names of resources (e.g. files) if those resources can have alternate names.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Output Encoding:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being used by the downstream component.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass whitelist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Alternate Encoding::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::267::3::52::53::64::71::72::78::79::80::
<h5>Notes</h5>null

