# ID: 23 - Relative Path Traversal
<h5>Name</h5>Relative Path Traversal
<h5>Weakness</h5>Base
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The software uses external input to construct a pathname that should be within a restricted directory, but it does not properly neutralize sequences such as .. that can resolve to a location that is outside of that directory.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>This allows attackers to traverse the file system to access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:22:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:22:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Confidentiality:SCOPE:Availability:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands:NOTE:Integrity Confidentiality Availability Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands The attacker may be able to create or overwrite critical files that are used to execute code, such as programs or libraries.::SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Modify Files or Directories:NOTE:Integrity Modify Files or Directories The attacker may be able to overwrite or create critical files, such as programs, libraries, or important data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that mechanism. For example, appending a new account at the end of a password file may allow an attacker to bypass authentication.::SCOPE:Confidentiality:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Read Files or Directories:NOTE:Confidentiality Read Files or Directories The attacker may be able read the contents of unexpected files and expose sensitive data. If the targeted file is used for a security mechanism, then the attacker may be able to bypass that mechanism. For example, by reading a password file, the attacker could conduct brute force password guessing attacks in order to break into an account on the system.::SCOPE:Availability:TECHNICAL IMPACT:DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart:NOTE:Availability DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart The attacker may be able to overwrite, delete, or corrupt unexpected critical files such as programs, libraries, or important data. This may prevent the software from working at all and in the case of a protection mechanisms such as authentication, it has the potential to lockout every user of the software.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When validating filenames, use stringent whitelists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single . character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23, and exclude directory separators such as / to avoid CWE-36. Use a whitelist of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434. Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a blacklist, which may be incomplete (CWE-184). For example, filtering / is insufficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of as a directory separator. Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous data (CWE-182). For example, if ../ sequences are removed from the .../...// string in a sequential fashion, two instances of ../ would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the ../ string.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass whitelist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked. Use a built-in path canonicalization function (such as realpath() in C) that produces the canonical version of the pathname, which effectively removes .. sequences and symbolic links (CWE-23, CWE-59). This includes: realpath() in C getCanonicalPath() in Java GetFullPath() in ASP.NET realpath() or abs_path() in Perl realpath() in PHP::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0298:DESCRIPTION:Server allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service via certain HTTP GET requests containing a %2e%2e (encoded dot-dot), several /../ sequences, or several ../ in a URI.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0298REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0661:DESCRIPTION:not in blacklist for web server, allowing path traversal attacks when the server is run in Windows and other OSes.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0661REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0946:DESCRIPTION:Arbitrary files may be read files via .. (dot dot) sequences in an HTTP request.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0946REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1042:DESCRIPTION:Directory traversal vulnerability in search engine for web server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via .. sequences in queries.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1042REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1209:DESCRIPTION:Directory traversal vulnerability in FTP server allows remote attackers to read arbitrary files via .. sequences in a GET request.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1209REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1178:DESCRIPTION:Directory traversal vulnerability in servlet allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary commands via .. sequences in an HTTP request.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1178REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1987:DESCRIPTION:Protection mechanism checks for /.. but doesn't account for Windows-specific .. allowing read of arbitrary files.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1987REFERENCE:CVE-2005-2142:DESCRIPTION:Directory traversal vulnerability in FTP server allows remote authenticated attackers to list arbitrary directories via a .. sequence in an LS command.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-2142REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0160:DESCRIPTION:The administration function in Access Control Server allows remote attackers to read HTML, Java class, and image files outside the web root via a .... sequence in the URL to port 2002.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0160REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0467:DESCRIPTION:... in web server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0467REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0963:DESCRIPTION:... in cd command in FTP server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0963REFERENCE:CVE-2001-1193:DESCRIPTION:... in cd command in FTP server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-1193REFERENCE:CVE-2001-1131:DESCRIPTION:... in cd command in FTP server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-1131REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0480:DESCRIPTION:read of arbitrary files and directories using GET or CD with ... in Windows-based FTP server.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0480REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0288:DESCRIPTION:read files using . and Unicode-encoded / or characters in the URL.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0288REFERENCE:CVE-2003-0313:DESCRIPTION:Directory listing of web server using ...:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2003-0313REFERENCE:CVE-2005-1658:DESCRIPTION:Triple dot:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-1658REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0240:DESCRIPTION:read files via /........../ in URL:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0240REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0773:DESCRIPTION:read files via .... in web server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0773REFERENCE:CVE-1999-1082:DESCRIPTION:read files via ...... in web server (doubled triple dot?):LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-1999-1082REFERENCE:CVE-2004-2121:DESCRIPTION:read files via ...... in web server (doubled triple dot?):LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-2121REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0491:DESCRIPTION:multiple attacks using .., ..., and .... in different commands:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0491REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0615:DESCRIPTION:... or .... in chat server:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0615REFERENCE:CVE-2005-2169:DESCRIPTION:chain: .../...// bypasses protection mechanism using regexp's that remove ../ resulting in collapse into an unsafe value ../ (CWE-182) and resultant path traversal.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-2169REFERENCE:CVE-2005-0202:DESCRIPTION:.../..../// bypasses regexp's that remove ./ and ../:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-0202REFERENCE:CVE-2004-1670:DESCRIPTION:Mail server allows remote attackers to create arbitrary directories via a .. or rename arbitrary files via a ....// in user supplied parameters.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2004-1670
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Relative Path Traversal::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP16:ENTRY NAME:Path Traversal::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::139::23::76::
<h5>Notes</h5>null

