# ID: 259 - Use of Hard-coded Password
<h5>Name</h5>Use of Hard-coded Password
<h5>Weakness</h5>Base
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The software contains a hard-coded password, which it uses for its own inbound authentication or for outbound communication to external components.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>A hard-coded password typically leads to a significant authentication failure that can be difficult for the system administrator to detect. Once detected, it can be difficult to fix, so the administrator may be forced into disabling the product entirely. There are two main variations: Inbound: the software contains an authentication mechanism that checks for a hard-coded password. Outbound: the software connects to another system or component, and it contains hard-coded password for connecting to that component. In the Inbound variant, a default administration account is created, and a simple password is hard-coded into the product and associated with that account. This hard-coded password is the same for each installation of the product, and it usually cannot be changed or disabled by system administrators without manually modifying the program, or otherwise patching the software. If the password is ever discovered or published (a common occurrence on the Internet), then anybody with knowledge of this password can access the product. Finally, since all installations of the software will have the same password, even across different organizations, this enables massive attacks such as worms to take place. The Outbound variant applies to front-end systems that authenticate with a back-end service. The back-end service may require a fixed password which can be easily discovered. The programmer may simply hard-code those back-end credentials into the front-end software. Any user of that program may be able to extract the password. Client-side systems with hard-coded passwords pose even more of a threat, since the extraction of a password from a binary is usually very simple.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:798:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:798:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:PeerOf:CWE ID:321:VIEW ID:1000::NATURE:PeerOf:CWE ID:257:VIEW ID:1000::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>::ORDINALITY:Primary:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Access Control:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Gain Privileges or Assume Identity:NOTE:Access Control Gain Privileges or Assume Identity If hard-coded passwords are used, it is almost certain that malicious users will gain access through the account in question.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>::METHOD:Manual Analysis:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:This weakness can be detected using tools and techniques that require manual (human) analysis, such as penetration testing, threat modeling, and interactive tools that allow the tester to record and modify an active session.::METHOD:Black Box:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use monitoring tools that examine the software's process as it interacts with the operating system and the network. This technique is useful in cases when source code is unavailable, if the software was not developed by you, or if you want to verify that the build phase did not introduce any new weaknesses. Examples include debuggers that directly attach to the running process; system-call tracing utilities such as truss (Solaris) and strace (Linux); system activity monitors such as FileMon, RegMon, Process Monitor, and other Sysinternals utilities (Windows); and sniffers and protocol analyzers that monitor network traffic. Attach the monitor to the process and perform a login. Using disassembled code, look at the associated instructions and see if any of them appear to be comparing the input to a fixed string or value.::
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For outbound authentication: store passwords outside of the code in a strongly-protected, encrypted configuration file or database that is protected from access by all outsiders, including other local users on the same system. Properly protect the key (CWE-320). If you cannot use encryption to protect the file, then make sure that the permissions are as restrictive as possible.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For inbound authentication: Rather than hard-code a default username and password for first time logins, utilize a first login mode that requires the user to enter a unique strong password.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Perform access control checks and limit which entities can access the feature that requires the hard-coded password. For example, a feature might only be enabled through the system console instead of through a network connection.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For inbound authentication: apply strong one-way hashes to your passwords and store those hashes in a configuration file or database with appropriate access control. That way, theft of the file/database still requires the attacker to try to crack the password. When receiving an incoming password during authentication, take the hash of the password and compare it to the hash that you have saved. Use randomly assigned salts for each separate hash that you generate. This increases the amount of computation that an attacker needs to conduct a brute-force attack, possibly limiting the effectiveness of the rainbow table method.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For front-end to back-end connections: Three solutions are possible, although none are complete. The first suggestion involves the use of generated passwords which are changed automatically and must be entered at given time intervals by a system administrator. These passwords will be held in memory and only be valid for the time intervals. Next, the passwords used should be limited at the back end to only performing actions valid for the front end, as opposed to having full access. Finally, the messages sent should be tagged and checksummed with time sensitive values so as to prevent replay style attacks.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:7 Pernicious Kingdoms:ENTRY NAME:Password Management: Hard-Coded Password::::TAXONOMY NAME:CLASP:ENTRY NAME:Use of hard-coded password::::TAXONOMY NAME:OWASP Top Ten 2004:ENTRY ID:A3:ENTRY NAME:Broken Authentication and Session Management:MAPPING FIT:CWE More Specific::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT Java Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:MSC03-J:ENTRY NAME:Never hard code sensitive information::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP33:ENTRY NAME:Hardcoded sensitive data::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::190::191::
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Maintenance:NOTE:This entry should probably be split into multiple variants: an inbound variant (as seen in the second demonstrative example) and an outbound variant (as seen in the first demonstrative example). These variants are likely to have different consequences, detectability, etc. See extended description.::

