# ID: 284 - Improper Access Control
<h5>Name</h5>Improper Access Control
<h5>Weakness</h5>Class
<h5>Status</h5>Incomplete
<h5>Description</h5>The software does not restrict or incorrectly restricts access to a resource from an unauthorized actor.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>Access control involves the use of several protection mechanisms such as: Authentication (proving the identity of an actor) Authorization (ensuring that a given actor can access a resource), and Accountability (tracking of activities that were performed) When any mechanism is not applied or otherwise fails, attackers can compromise the security of the software by gaining privileges, reading sensitive information, executing commands, evading detection, etc. There are two distinct behaviors that can introduce access control weaknesses: Specification: incorrect privileges, permissions, ownership, etc. are explicitly specified for either the user or the resource (for example, setting a password file to be world-writable, or giving administrator capabilities to a guest user). This action could be performed by the program or the administrator. Enforcement: the mechanism contains errors that prevent it from properly enforcing the specified access control requirements (e.g., allowing the user to specify their own privileges, or allowing a syntactically-incorrect ACL to produce insecure settings). This problem occurs within the program itself, in that it does not actually enforce the intended security policy that the administrator specifies.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:693:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:664:VIEW ID:1000::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>null
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>::TERM:Authorization:DESCRIPTION:The terms access control and authorization are often used interchangeably, although many people have distinct definitions. The CWE usage of access control is intended as a general term for the various mechanisms that restrict which users can access which resources, and authorization is more narrowly defined. It is unlikely that there will be community consensus on the use of these terms.::
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Operation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Other:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Varies by Context::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Architecture and Design Operation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Very carefully manage the setting, management, and handling of privileges. Explicitly manage trust zones in the software.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Separation of Privilege:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Compartmentalize the system to have safe areas where trust boundaries can be unambiguously drawn. Do not allow sensitive data to go outside of the trust boundary and always be careful when interfacing with a compartment outside of the safe area. Ensure that appropriate compartmentalization is built into the system design and that the compartmentalization serves to allow for and further reinforce privilege separation functionality. Architects and designers should rely on the principle of least privilege to decide when it is appropriate to use and to drop system privileges.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2010-4624:DESCRIPTION:Bulletin board applies restrictions on number of images during post creation, but does not enforce this on editing.:LINK:https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2010-4624
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>File or Directory::
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Access Control List (ACL) errors::::TAXONOMY NAME:WASC:ENTRY ID:2:ENTRY NAME:Insufficient Authorization::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::19::474::
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Maintenance:NOTE:This item needs more work. Possible sub-categories include: * Trusted group includes undesired entities (partially covered by CWE-286) * Group can perform undesired actions * ACL parse error does not fail closed::

