# ID: 316 - Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory
<h5>Name</h5>Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory
<h5>Weakness</h5>Variant
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The application stores sensitive information in cleartext in memory.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>The sensitive memory might be saved to disk, stored in a core dump, or remain uncleared if the application crashes, or if the programmer does not properly clear the memory before freeing it. It could be argued that such problems are usually only exploitable by those with administrator privileges. However, swapping could cause the memory to be written to disk and leave it accessible to physical attack afterwards. Core dump files might have insecure permissions or be stored in archive files that are accessible to untrusted people. Or, uncleared sensitive memory might be inadvertently exposed to attackers due to another weakness.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:312:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:312:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Confidentiality:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Read Memory::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>null
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2001-1517:DESCRIPTION:Sensitive authentication information in cleartext in memory.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-1517REFERENCE:BID:10155:DESCRIPTION:Sensitive authentication information in cleartext in memory.:LINK:http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/10155REFERENCE:CVE-2001-0984:DESCRIPTION:Password protector leaves passwords in memory when window is minimized, even when clear password when minimized is set.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2001-0984REFERENCE:CVE-2003-0291:DESCRIPTION:SSH client does not clear credentials from memory.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2003-0291
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>Memory::
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Plaintext Storage in Memory::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP23:ENTRY NAME:Exposed Data::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Relationship:NOTE:This could be a resultant weakness, e.g. if the compiler removes code that was intended to wipe memory.::::TYPE:Terminology:NOTE:Different people use cleartext and plaintext to mean the same thing: the lack of encryption. However, within cryptography, these have more precise meanings. Plaintext is the information just before it is fed into a cryptographic algorithm, including already-encrypted text. Cleartext is any information that is unencrypted, although it might be in an encoded form that is not easily human-readable (such as base64 encoding).::

