# ID: 38 - Path Traversal: 'absolutepathnamehere'
<h5>Name</h5>Path Traversal: 'absolutepathnamehere'
<h5>Weakness</h5>Variant
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>A software system that accepts input in the form of a backslash absolute path ('absolutepathnamehere') without appropriate validation can allow an attacker to traverse the file system to unintended locations or access arbitrary files.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>null
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:36:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:36:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Confidentiality:SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Read Files or Directories Modify Files or Directories::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When validating filenames, use stringent whitelists that limit the character set to be used. If feasible, only allow a single . character in the filename to avoid weaknesses such as CWE-23, and exclude directory separators such as / to avoid CWE-36. Use a whitelist of allowable file extensions, which will help to avoid CWE-434. Do not rely exclusively on a filtering mechanism that removes potentially dangerous characters. This is equivalent to a blacklist, which may be incomplete (CWE-184). For example, filtering / is insufficient protection if the filesystem also supports the use of as a directory separator. Another possible error could occur when the filtering is applied in a way that still produces dangerous data (CWE-182). For example, if ../ sequences are removed from the .../...// string in a sequential fashion, two instances of ../ would be removed from the original string, but the remaining characters would still form the ../ string.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass whitelist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-1999-1263:DESCRIPTION:Mail client allows remote attackers to overwrite arbitrary files via an e-mail message containing a uuencoded attachment that specifies the full pathname for the file to be modified.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-1999-1263REFERENCE:CVE-2003-0753:DESCRIPTION:Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via a full pathname to the target file in config parameter.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2003-0753REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1525:DESCRIPTION:Remote attackers can read arbitrary files via an absolute pathname.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1525
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:\absolute\pathname\here ('backslash absolute path')::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:FIO05-C:ENTRY NAME:Identify files using multiple file attributes::::TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP16:ENTRY NAME:Path Traversal::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>null

