# ID: 464 - Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
<h5>Name</h5>Addition of Data Structure Sentinel
<h5>Weakness</h5>Base
<h5>Status</h5>Incomplete
<h5>Description</h5>The accidental addition of a data-structure sentinel can cause serious programming logic problems.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>Data-structure sentinels are often used to mark the structure of data. A common example of this is the null character at the end of strings or a special sentinel to mark the end of a linked list. It is dangerous to allow this type of control data to be easily accessible. Therefore, it is important to protect from the addition or modification of sentinels.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:138:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>::LANGUAGE NAME:C:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::LANGUAGE NAME:C++:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Modify Application Data:NOTE:Integrity Modify Application Data Generally this error will cause the data structure to not work properly by truncating the data.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Implementation Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Encapsulate the user from interacting with data sentinels. Validate user input to verify that sentinels are not present.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Proper error checking can reduce the risk of inadvertently introducing sentinel values into data. For example, if a parsing function fails or encounters an error, it might return a value that is the same as the sentinel.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use an abstraction library to abstract away risky APIs. This is not a complete solution.::PHASE:Operation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use OS-level preventative functionality. This is not a complete solution.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:CLASP:ENTRY NAME:Addition of data-structure sentinel::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:STR03-C:ENTRY NAME:Do not inadvertently truncate a null-terminated byte string::::TAXONOMY NAME:CERT C Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:STR06-C:ENTRY NAME:Do not assume that strtok() leaves the parse string unchanged::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>null

