# ID: 472 - External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter
<h5>Name</h5>External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter
<h5>Weakness</h5>Base
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The web application does not sufficiently verify inputs that are assumed to be immutable but are actually externally controllable, such as hidden form fields.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>If a web product does not properly protect assumed-immutable values from modification in hidden form fields, parameters, cookies, or URLs, this can lead to modification of critical data. Web applications often mistakenly make the assumption that data passed to the client in hidden fields or cookies is not susceptible to tampering. Improper validation of data that are user-controllable can lead to the application processing incorrect, and often malicious, input. For example, custom cookies commonly store session data or persistent data across sessions. This kind of session data is normally involved in security related decisions on the server side, such as user authentication and access control. Thus, the cookies might contain sensitive data such as user credentials and privileges. This is a dangerous practice, as it can often lead to improper reliance on the value of the client-provided cookie by the server side application.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:642:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:471:VIEW ID:1000::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:471:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>::TERM:Assumed-Immutable Parameter Tampering:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Modify Application Data:NOTE:Integrity Modify Application Data Without appropriate protection mechanisms, the client can easily tamper with cookies and similar web data. Reliance on the cookies without detailed validation can lead to problems such as SQL injection. If you use cookie values for security related decisions on the server side, manipulating the cookies might lead to violations of security policies such as authentication bypassing, user impersonation and privilege escalation. In addition, storing sensitive data in the cookie without appropriate protection can also lead to disclosure of sensitive user data, especially data stored in persistent cookies.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Inputs should be decoded and canonicalized to the application's current internal representation before being validated (CWE-180). Make sure that the application does not decode the same input twice (CWE-174). Such errors could be used to bypass whitelist validation schemes by introducing dangerous inputs after they have been checked.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2002-0108:DESCRIPTION:Forum product allows spoofed messages of other users via hidden form fields for name and e-mail address.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-0108REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0253:DESCRIPTION:Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0253REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0254:DESCRIPTION:Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0254REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0926:DESCRIPTION:Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0926REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0101:DESCRIPTION:Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0101REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0102:DESCRIPTION:Shopping cart allows price modification via hidden form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0102REFERENCE:CVE-2000-0758:DESCRIPTION:Allows admin access by modifying value of form field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-0758REFERENCE:CVE-2002-1880:DESCRIPTION:Read messages by modifying message ID parameter.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2002-1880REFERENCE:CVE-2000-1234:DESCRIPTION:Send email to arbitrary users by modifying email parameter.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2000-1234REFERENCE:CVE-2005-1652:DESCRIPTION:Authentication bypass by setting a parameter.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-1652REFERENCE:CVE-2005-1784:DESCRIPTION:Product does not check authorization for configuration change admin script, leading to password theft via modified e-mail address field.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-1784REFERENCE:CVE-2005-2314:DESCRIPTION:Logic error leads to password disclosure.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-2314REFERENCE:CVE-2005-1682:DESCRIPTION:Modification of message number parameter allows attackers to read other people's messages.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2005-1682
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:PLOVER:ENTRY NAME:Web Parameter Tampering::::TAXONOMY NAME:OWASP Top Ten 2007:ENTRY ID:A4:ENTRY NAME:Insecure Direct Object Reference:MAPPING FIT:CWE More Specific::::TAXONOMY NAME:OWASP Top Ten 2004:ENTRY ID:A1:ENTRY NAME:Unvalidated Input:MAPPING FIT:CWE More Specific::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>::146::31::39::
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Relationship:NOTE:This is a primary weakness for many other weaknesses and functional consequences, including XSS, SQL injection, path disclosure, and file inclusion.::::TYPE:Theoretical:NOTE:This is a technology-specific MAID problem.::

