# ID: 566 - Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled SQL Primary Key
<h5>Name</h5>Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled SQL Primary Key
<h5>Weakness</h5>Variant
<h5>Status</h5>Incomplete
<h5>Description</h5>The software uses a database table that includes records that should not be accessible to an actor, but it executes a SQL statement with a primary key that can be controlled by that actor.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>When a user can set a primary key to any value, then the user can modify the key to point to unauthorized records. Database access control errors occur when: Data enters a program from an untrusted source. The data is used to specify the value of a primary key in a SQL query. The untrusted source does not have the permissions to be able to access all rows in the associated table.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:639:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:639:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>::TECHNOLOGY NAME:Database Server:TECHNOLOGY PREVALENCE:Often::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Confidentiality:SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Access Control:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Read Application Data Modify Application Data Bypass Protection Mechanism::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use a standard input validation mechanism to validate all input for length, type, syntax, and business rules before accepting the data. Use an accept known good validation strategy.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use a parameterized query AND make sure that the accepted values conform to the business rules. Construct your SQL statement accordingly.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:Software Fault Patterns:ENTRY ID:SFP25:ENTRY NAME:Tainted input to variable::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>null

