# ID: 670 - Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
<h5>Name</h5>Always-Incorrect Control Flow Implementation
<h5>Weakness</h5>Class
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The code contains a control flow path that does not reflect the algorithm that the path is intended to implement, leading to incorrect behavior any time this path is navigated.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>This weakness captures cases in which a particular code segment is always incorrect with respect to the algorithm that it is implementing. For example, if a C programmer intends to include multiple statements in a single block but does not include the enclosing braces (CWE-483), then the logic is always incorrect. This issue is in contrast to most weaknesses in which the code usually behaves correctly, except when it is externally manipulated in malicious ways.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:691:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>null
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Operation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Other:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Other Alter Execution Logic::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>null
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>null
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Maintenance:NOTE:This node could possibly be split into lower-level nodes. Early Return is for returning control to the caller too soon (e.g., CWE-584). Excess Return is when control is returned too far up the call stack (CWE-600, CWE-395). Improper control limitation occurs when the product maintains control at a lower level of execution, when control should be returned further up the call stack (CWE-455). Incorrect syntax covers code that's just plain wrong such as CWE-484 and CWE-483.::

