# ID: 673 - External Influence of Sphere Definition
<h5>Name</h5>External Influence of Sphere Definition
<h5>Weakness</h5>Class
<h5>Status</h5>Draft
<h5>Description</h5>The product does not prevent the definition of control spheres from external actors.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>Typically, a product defines its control sphere within the code itself, or through configuration by the product's administrator. In some cases, an external party can change the definition of the control sphere. This is typically a resultant weakness.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:664:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>null
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>null
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Architecture and Design:DESCRIPTION::::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Other:TECHNICAL IMPACT:Other::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>null
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>null
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>null
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>null
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Theoretical:NOTE:A control sphere is a set of resources and behaviors that are accessible to a single actor, or a group of actors. A product's security model will typically define multiple spheres, possibly implicitly. For example, a server might define one sphere for administrators who can create new user accounts with subdirectories under /home/server/, and a second sphere might cover the set of users who can create or delete files within their own subdirectories. A third sphere might be users who are authenticated to the operating system on which the product is installed. Each sphere has different sets of actors and allowable behaviors.::

