# ID: 754 - Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
<h5>Name</h5>Improper Check for Unusual or Exceptional Conditions
<h5>Weakness</h5>Class
<h5>Status</h5>Incomplete
<h5>Description</h5>The software does not check or improperly checks for unusual or exceptional conditions that are not expected to occur frequently during day to day operation of the software.
<h5>ExtendedDescription</h5>The programmer may assume that certain events or conditions will never occur or do not need to be worried about, such as low memory conditions, lack of access to resources due to restrictive permissions, or misbehaving clients or components. However, attackers may intentionally trigger these unusual conditions, thus violating the programmer's assumptions, possibly introducing instability, incorrect behavior, or a vulnerability. Note that this entry is not exclusively about the use of exceptions and exception handling, which are mechanisms for both checking and handling unusual or unexpected conditions.
<h5>RelatedWeaknesses</h5>::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:703:VIEW ID:699:ORDINAL:Primary::NATURE:ChildOf:CWE ID:703:VIEW ID:1000:ORDINAL:Primary::
<h5>WeaknessOrdinalities</h5>null
<h5>ApplicablePlatforms</h5>:::LANGUAGE CLASS:Language-Independent:LANGUAGE PREVALENCE:Undetermined::
<h5>BackgroundDetails</h5>::Many functions will return some value about the success of their actions. This will alert the program whether or not to handle any errors caused by that function.::
<h5>AlternateTerms</h5>null
<h5>ModesOfIntroduction</h5>:::PHASE:Implementation:DESCRIPTION:::
<h5>ExploitationFactors</h5>null
<h5>LikelihoodofExploit</h5>null
<h5>CommonConsequences</h5>::SCOPE:Integrity:SCOPE:Availability:TECHNICAL IMPACT:DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart Unexpected State:NOTE:Integrity Availability DoS: Crash, Exit, or Restart Unexpected State The data which were produced as a result of a function call could be in a bad state upon return. If the return value is not checked, then this bad data may be used in operations, possibly leading to a crash or other unintended behaviors.::
<h5>DetectionMethods</h5>::METHOD:Automated Static Analysis:EFFECTIVENESS:Moderate:DESCRIPTION:Automated static analysis may be useful for detecting unusual conditions involving system resources or common programming idioms, but not for violations of business rules.::METHOD:Manual Dynamic Analysis:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Identify error conditions that are not likely to occur during normal usage and trigger them. For example, run the program under low memory conditions, run with insufficient privileges or permissions, interrupt a transaction before it is completed, or disable connectivity to basic network services such as DNS. Monitor the software for any unexpected behavior. If you trigger an unhandled exception or similar error that was discovered and handled by the application's environment, it may still indicate unexpected conditions that were not handled by the application itself.::
<h5>PotentialMitigations</h5>::PHASE:Requirements:STRATEGY:Language Selection:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use a language that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid. Choose languages with features such as exception handling that force the programmer to anticipate unusual conditions that may generate exceptions. Custom exceptions may need to be developed to handle unusual business-logic conditions. Be careful not to pass sensitive exceptions back to the user (CWE-209, CWE-248).::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS:High:DESCRIPTION:Check the results of all functions that return a value and verify that the value is expected.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS:High:DESCRIPTION:If using exception handling, catch and throw specific exceptions instead of overly-general exceptions (CWE-396, CWE-397). Catch and handle exceptions as locally as possible so that exceptions do not propagate too far up the call stack (CWE-705). Avoid unchecked or uncaught exceptions where feasible (CWE-248).::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Ensure that error messages only contain minimal details that are useful to the intended audience, and nobody else. The messages need to strike the balance between being too cryptic and not being cryptic enough. They should not necessarily reveal the methods that were used to determine the error. Such detailed information can be used to refine the original attack to increase the chances of success. If errors must be tracked in some detail, capture them in log messages - but consider what could occur if the log messages can be viewed by attackers. Avoid recording highly sensitive information such as passwords in any form. Avoid inconsistent messaging that might accidentally tip off an attacker about internal state, such as whether a username is valid or not. Exposing additional information to a potential attacker in the context of an exceptional condition can help the attacker determine what attack vectors are most likely to succeed beyond DoS.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright.::PHASE:Architecture and Design Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:If the program must fail, ensure that it fails gracefully (fails closed). There may be a temptation to simply let the program fail poorly in cases such as low memory conditions, but an attacker may be able to assert control before the software has fully exited. Alternately, an uncontrolled failure could cause cascading problems with other downstream components; for example, the program could send a signal to a downstream process so the process immediately knows that a problem has occurred and has a better chance of recovery.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use system limits, which should help to prevent resource exhaustion. However, the software should still handle low resource conditions since they may still occur.::
<h5>ObservedExamples</h5>::REFERENCE:CVE-2007-3798:DESCRIPTION:Unchecked return value leads to resultant integer overflow and code execution.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-3798REFERENCE:CVE-2006-4447:DESCRIPTION:Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2006-4447REFERENCE:CVE-2006-2916:DESCRIPTION:Program does not check return value when invoking functions to drop privileges, which could leave users with higher privileges than expected by forcing those functions to fail.:LINK:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2006-2916
<h5>FunctionalAreas</h5>null
<h5>AffectedResources</h5>null
<h5>TaxonomyMappings</h5>TAXONOMY NAME:CERT Perl Secure Coding:ENTRY ID:EXP31-PL:ENTRY NAME:Do not suppress or ignore exceptions:MAPPING FIT:CWE More Abstract::
<h5>RelatedAttackPatterns</h5>null
<h5>Notes</h5>TYPE:Relationship:NOTE:Sometimes, when a return value can be used to indicate an error, an unchecked return value is a code-layer instance of a missing application-layer check for exceptional conditions. However, return values are not always needed to communicate exceptional conditions. For example, expiration of resources, values passed by reference, asynchronously modified data, sockets, etc. may indicate exceptional conditions without the use of a return value.::

