# ID: 377 - 不安全临时文件
<h5>名称</h5>不安全临时文件
<h5>弱点抽象</h5>底座
<h5>状态</h5>不完全
<h5>描述</h5>创建和使用不安全的临时文件会使应用程序和系统数据容易受到攻击。
<h5>扩展描述</h5>空
<h5>相关的弱点</h5>*性质：子女：CWE ID：668：视图ID：1000：序数：主：
<h5>弱点规律</h5>空
<h5>适用的平台</h5>*语言类：语言-独立：语言普及率：未定：
<h5>背景细节</h5>空
<h5>替代条款</h5>空
<h5>模式的介绍</h5>*阶段：架构和Design：DESCRIPTION：PHASE：Implementation：DESCRIPTION：
<h5>剥削因素</h5>空
<h5>利用的可能性</h5>空
<h5>常见的后果</h5>：：SCOPE：Confidentiality：SCOPE：Integrity：TECHNICAL影响：读取文件或目录，修改文件或目录：
<h5>检测方法</h5>空
<h5>潜在的缓解措施</h5>空
<h5>观察到的例子</h5>空
<h5>功能区域</h5>空
<h5>影响资源</h5>空
<h5>分类法映射</h5>分类名称：7有害王国：入口名称：不安全临时文件：分类法名称：cert C安全编码：条目ID：CON 33-C：条目名称：使用库函数时避免竞争条件：映射适合：不精确：分类法名称：cert Java安全编码：条目ID：FIO00-J：Entry name：请勿操作共享目录中的文件：
<h5>相关的攻击模式</h5>空
<h5>笔记</h5>TYPE:Other:NOTE:Applications require temporary files so frequently that many different mechanisms exist for creating them in the C Library and Windows(R) API. Most of these functions are vulnerable to various forms of attacks. The functions designed to aid in the creation of temporary files can be broken into two groups based whether they simply provide a filename or actually open a new file. - Group 1: Unique Filenames: The first group of C Library and WinAPI functions designed to help with the process of creating temporary files do so by generating a unique file name for a new temporary file, which the program is then supposed to open. This group includes C Library functions like tmpnam(), tempnam(), mktemp() and their C++ equivalents prefaced with an _ (underscore) as well as the GetTempFileName() function from the Windows API. This group of functions suffers from an underlying race condition on the filename chosen. Although the functions guarantee that the filename is unique at the time it is selected, there is no mechanism to prevent another process or an attacker from creating a file with the same name after it is selected but before the application attempts to open the file. Beyond the risk of a legitimate collision caused by another call to the same function, there is a high probability that an attacker will be able to create a malicious collision because the filenames generated by these functions are not sufficiently randomized to make them difficult to guess. If a file with the selected name is created, then depending on how the file is opened the existing contents or access permissions of the file may remain intact. If the existing contents of the file are malicious in nature, an attacker may be able to inject dangerous data into the application when it reads data back from the temporary file. If an attacker pre-creates the file with relaxed access permissions, then data stored in the temporary file by the application may be accessed, modified or corrupted by an attacker. On Unix based systems an even more insidious attack is possible if the attacker pre-creates the file as a link to another important file. Then, if the application truncates or writes data to the file, it may unwittingly perform damaging operations for the attacker. This is an especially serious threat if the program operates with elevated permissions. Finally, in the best case the file will be opened with the a call to open() using the O_CREAT and O_EXCL flags or to CreateFile() using the CREATE_NEW attribute, which will fail if the file already exists and therefore prevent the types of attacks described above. However, if an attacker is able to accurately predict a sequence of temporary file names, then the application may be prevented from opening necessary temporary storage causing a denial of service (DoS) attack. This type of attack would not be difficult to mount given the small amount of randomness used in the selection of the filenames generated by these functions. - Group 2: Unique Files: The second group of C Library functions attempts to resolve some of the security problems related to temporary files by not only generating a unique file name, but also opening the file. This group includes C Library functions like tmpfile() and its C++ equivalents prefaced with an _ (underscore), as well as the slightly better-behaved C Library function mkstemp(). The tmpfile() style functions construct a unique filename and open it in the same way that fopen() would if passed the flags wb+, that is, as a binary file in read/write mode. If the file already exists, tmpfile() will truncate it to size zero, possibly in an attempt to assuage the security concerns mentioned earlier regarding the race condition that exists between the selection of a supposedly unique filename and the subsequent opening of the selected file. However, this behavior clearly does not solve the function's security problems. First, an attacker can pre-create the file with relaxed access-permissions that will likely be retained by the file opened by tmpfile(). Furthermore, on Unix based systems if the attacker pre-creates the file as a link to another important file, the application may use its possibly elevated permissions to truncate that file, thereby doing damage on behalf of the attacker. Finally, if tmpfile() does create a new file, the access permissions applied to that file will vary from one operating system to another, which can leave application data vulnerable even if an attacker is unable to predict the filename to be used in advance. Finally, mkstemp() is a reasonably safe way create temporary files. It will attempt to create and open a unique file based on a filename template provided by the user combined with a series of randomly generated characters. If it is unable to create such a file, it will fail and return -1. On modern systems the file is opened using mode 0600, which means the file will be secure from tampering unless the user explicitly changes its access permissions. However, mkstemp() still suffers from the use of predictable file names and can leave an application vulnerable to denial of service attacks if an attacker causes mkstemp() to fail by predicting and pre-creating the filenames to be used.::

