# ID: 79 - 网页生成过程中输入的不正确中和(“跨站点脚本”)
<h5>名称</h5>网页生成过程中输入的不正确中和(“跨站点脚本”)
<h5>弱点抽象</h5>底座
<h5>状态</h5>可用
<h5>描述</h5>该软件不会中和或不正确地中和用户可控输入，然后将其放置在作为网页提供给其他用户的输出中。
<h5>扩展描述</h5>Cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities occur when: 1. Untrusted data enters a web application, typically from a web request. 2. The web application dynamically generates a web page that contains this untrusted data. 3. During page generation, the application does not prevent the data from containing content that is executable by a web browser, such as JavaScript, HTML tags, HTML attributes, mouse events, Flash, ActiveX, etc. 4. A victim visits the generated web page through a web browser, which contains malicious script that was injected using the untrusted data. 5. Since the script comes from a web page that was sent by the web server, the victim's web browser executes the malicious script in the context of the web server's domain. 6. This effectively violates the intention of the web browser's same-origin policy, which states that scripts in one domain should not be able to access resources or run code in a different domain. There are three main kinds of XSS: Type 1: Reflected XSS (or Non-Persistent) - The server reads data directly from the HTTP request and reflects it back in the HTTP response. Reflected XSS exploits occur when an attacker causes a victim to supply dangerous content to a vulnerable web application, which is then reflected back to the victim and executed by the web browser. The most common mechanism for delivering malicious content is to include it as a parameter in a URL that is posted publicly or e-mailed directly to the victim. URLs constructed in this manner constitute the core of many phishing schemes, whereby an attacker convinces a victim to visit a URL that refers to a vulnerable site. After the site reflects the attacker's content back to the victim, the content is executed by the victim's browser. Type 2: Stored XSS (or Persistent) - The application stores dangerous data in a database, message forum, visitor log, or other trusted data store. At a later time, the dangerous data is subsequently read back into the application and included in dynamic content. From an attacker's perspective, the optimal place to inject malicious content is in an area that is displayed to either many users or particularly interesting users. Interesting users typically have elevated privileges in the application or interact with sensitive data that is valuable to the attacker. If one of these users executes malicious content, the attacker may be able to perform privileged operations on behalf of the user or gain access to sensitive data belonging to the user. For example, the attacker might inject XSS into a log message, which might not be handled properly when an administrator views the logs. Type 0: DOM-Based XSS - In DOM-based XSS, the client performs the injection of XSS into the page; in the other types, the server performs the injection. DOM-based XSS generally involves server-controlled, trusted script that is sent to the client, such as Javascript that performs sanity checks on a form before the user submits it. If the server-supplied script processes user-supplied data and then injects it back into the web page (such as with dynamic HTML), then DOM-based XSS is possible. Once the malicious script is injected, the attacker can perform a variety of malicious activities. The attacker could transfer private information, such as cookies that may include session information, from the victim's machine to the attacker. The attacker could send malicious requests to a web site on behalf of the victim, which could be especially dangerous to the site if the victim has administrator privileges to manage that site. Phishing attacks could be used to emulate trusted web sites and trick the victim into entering a password, allowing the attacker to compromise the victim's account on that web site. Finally, the script could exploit a vulnerability in the web browser itself possibly taking over the victim's machine, sometimes referred to as drive-by hacking. In many cases, the attack can be launched without the victim even being aware of it. Even with careful users, attackers frequently use a variety of methods to encode the malicious portion of the attack, such as URL encoding or Unicode, so the request looks less suspicious.
<h5>相关的弱点</h5>*性质：CWE ID：74：视图ID：1000：序数：原生：自然：子类ID：74：视图ID：699：序号：主：自然：ID：1003：ORDINAL：Primary：：NATURE：CanPrecede：CWE ID：74：视图ID：494：视图ID：1000：自然：CWE ID：352：View ID：1000：
<h5>弱点规律</h5>*秩序：结果：说明：
<h5>适用的平台</h5>*语言类：语言独立：语言流行率：待定：Paradign名称：基于网页的：Paradign普及率：技术名称：Web服务器：技术流行率：经常：
<h5>背景细节</h5>*同一来源政策规定，浏览器应将在给定网站上运行的脚本访问的资源限制在客户端与该网站相关的资源，而不是任何其他网站或来源的客户端资源。目标是防止一个站点能够修改或读取不相关站点的内容。由于万维网涉及许多站点之间的交互，因此策略对于浏览器执行非常重要。当引用XSS时，网站的域大致相当于连接的客户端与该网站相关联的资源。也就是说，可以将域视为浏览器存储的用于用户与此特定站点交互的所有资源。：
<h5>替代条款</h5>*术语：XSS：Description：XSS是跨站点脚本的一个常见缩写。：术语：HTML注入：描述：HTML注入用作存储(类型2)XSS的同义词。：术语：CSS：Description：在最初发现XSS后的早期，CSS是一个常用的缩略语。然而，这将导致与级联样式表混淆，因此这一缩略词的使用已显著减少。
<h5>模式的介绍</h5>*阶段：架构和Design：DESCRIPTION：PHASE：Implementation：DESCRIPTION：
<h5>剥削因素</h5>空
<h5>利用的可能性</h5>空
<h5>常见的后果</h5>*范围：访问控制：范围：机密性：技术影响：旁路保护机制读取应用数据：注意：访问控制保密旁路保护机制读取应用程序数据使用跨站点脚本执行的最常见的攻击涉及泄露存储在用户cookie中的信息。通常，恶意用户会制作客户端脚本-当Web浏览器进行解析时-执行一些活动(例如将所有网站cookie发送到给定的电子邮件地址)。此脚本将由访问网站的每个用户加载并运行。Since the site requesting to run the script has access to the cookies in question，the malicious script does also.：：SCOPE：Integrity：SCOPE：Confidentiality：SCOPE：Availability：TECHNICAL IMPACT：Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands：NOTE：Integrity Confidentiality Availability Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands In some circumstances it may be possible to run arbitrary code on a victim‘s computer when cross-site scripting is combined with other flaws.：：SCOPE：Confidentiality：SCOPE：Integrity：SCOPE：Availability：SCOPE：Access Control：TECHNICAL IMPACT：Execute Unauthorized Code or Commands Bypass Protection Mechanism Read Application Data：NOTE：Confidentiality Integrity Availability Access控制执行未经授权的代码或命令，旁路保护机制读取应用程序数据XSS攻击的后果是相同的，无论它是存储还是反映。不同之处在于有效负载如何到达服务器。XSS会给最终用户带来各种各样的问题，从烦扰到完全的帐户妥协。可以利用一些跨站点脚本漏洞来操纵或窃取cookie，创建可能被误认为是有效用户的请求，危及机密信息，或为各种恶意目的在最终用户系统上执行恶意代码。其他破坏性攻击包括泄露最终用户文件、安装特洛伊木马程序、将用户重定向到其他页面或站点、从用户认为可信的站点运行Active X控件(在Microsoft Internet Explorer下)，以及修改内容表示。
<h5>检测方法</h5>*方法：针对这类弱点的自动静态Analysis：EFFECTIVENESS：Moderate：DESCRIPTION：Use自动静态分析工具。许多现代技术使用数据流分析来减少假阳性的数量。这不是一个完美的解决方案，因为100%的准确性和覆盖率是不可行的，特别是在涉及多个组件时。：方法：黑匣子：有效性：中度：描述：使用XSS备忘单[ref-714]或自动测试生成工具来帮助对Web应用程序发起各种各样的攻击。备忘单包含许多细微的XSS变体，它们专门针对弱的XSS防御。
<h5>潜在的缓解措施</h5>::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Libraries or Frameworks:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use a vetted library or framework that does not allow this weakness to occur or provides constructs that make this weakness easier to avoid. Examples of libraries and frameworks that make it easier to generate properly encoded output include Microsoft's Anti-XSS library, the OWASP ESAPI Encoding module, and Apache Wicket.::PHASE:Implementation Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Understand the context in which your data will be used and the encoding that will be expected. This is especially important when transmitting data between different components, or when generating outputs that can contain multiple encodings at the same time, such as web pages or multi-part mail messages. Study all expected communication protocols and data representations to determine the required encoding strategies. For any data that will be output to another web page, especially any data that was received from external inputs, use the appropriate encoding on all non-alphanumeric characters. Parts of the same output document may require different encodings, which will vary depending on whether the output is in the: HTML body Element attributes (such as src=XYZ) URIs JavaScript sections Cascading Style Sheets and style property etc. Note that HTML Entity Encoding is only appropriate for the HTML body. Consult the XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet [REF-724] for more details on the types of encoding and escaping that are needed.::PHASE:Architecture and Design Implementation:STRATEGY:Attack Surface Reduction:EFFECTIVENESS:Limited:DESCRIPTION:Understand all the potential areas where untrusted inputs can enter your software: parameters or arguments, cookies, anything read from the network, environment variables, reverse DNS lookups, query results, request headers, URL components, e-mail, files, filenames, databases, and any external systems that provide data to the application. Remember that such inputs may be obtained indirectly through API calls.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:For any security checks that are performed on the client side, ensure that these checks are duplicated on the server side, in order to avoid CWE-602. Attackers can bypass the client-side checks by modifying values after the checks have been performed, or by changing the client to remove the client-side checks entirely. Then, these modified values would be submitted to the server.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Parameterization:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:If available, use structured mechanisms that automatically enforce the separation between data and code. These mechanisms may be able to provide the relevant quoting, encoding, and validation automatically, instead of relying on the developer to provide this capability at every point where output is generated.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Output Encoding:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Use and specify an output encoding that can be handled by the downstream component that is reading the output. Common encodings include ISO-8859-1, UTF-7, and UTF-8. When an encoding is not specified, a downstream component may choose a different encoding, either by assuming a default encoding or automatically inferring which encoding is being used, which can be erroneous. When the encodings are inconsistent, the downstream component might treat some character or byte sequences as special, even if they are not special in the original encoding. Attackers might then be able to exploit this discrepancy and conduct injection attacks; they even might be able to bypass protection mechanisms that assume the original encoding is also being used by the downstream component. The problem of inconsistent output encodings often arises in web pages. If an encoding is not specified in an HTTP header, web browsers often guess about which encoding is being used. This can open up the browser to subtle XSS attacks.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY::EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:With Struts, write all data from form beans with the bean's filter attribute set to true.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Attack Surface Reduction:EFFECTIVENESS:Defense in Depth:DESCRIPTION:To help mitigate XSS attacks against the user's session cookie, set the session cookie to be HttpOnly. In browsers that support the HttpOnly feature (such as more recent versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox), this attribute can prevent the user's session cookie from being accessible to malicious client-side scripts that use document.cookie. This is not a complete solution, since HttpOnly is not supported by all browsers. More importantly, XMLHTTPRequest and other powerful browser technologies provide read access to HTTP headers, including the Set-Cookie header in which the HttpOnly flag is set.::PHASE:Implementation:STRATEGY:Input Validation:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:Assume all input is malicious. Use an accept known good input validation strategy, i.e., use a whitelist of acceptable inputs that strictly conform to specifications. Reject any input that does not strictly conform to specifications, or transform it into something that does. When performing input validation, consider all potentially relevant properties, including length, type of input, the full range of acceptable values, missing or extra inputs, syntax, consistency across related fields, and conformance to business rules. As an example of business rule logic, boat may be syntactically valid because it only contains alphanumeric characters, but it is not valid if the input is only expected to contain colors such as red or blue. Do not rely exclusively on looking for malicious or malformed inputs (i.e., do not rely on a blacklist). A blacklist is likely to miss at least one undesirable input, especially if the code's environment changes. This can give attackers enough room to bypass the intended validation. However, blacklists can be useful for detecting potential attacks or determining which inputs are so malformed that they should be rejected outright. When dynamically constructing web pages, use stringent whitelists that limit the character set based on the expected value of the parameter in the request. All input should be validated and cleansed, not just parameters that the user is supposed to specify, but all data in the request, including hidden fields, cookies, headers, the URL itself, and so forth. A common mistake that leads to continuing XSS vulnerabilities is to validate only fields that are expected to be redisplayed by the site. It is common to see data from the request that is reflected by the application server or the application that the development team did not anticipate. Also, a field that is not currently reflected may be used by a future developer. Therefore, validating ALL parts of the HTTP request is recommended. Note that proper output encoding, escaping, and quoting is the most effective solution for preventing XSS, although input validation may provide some defense-in-depth. This is because it effectively limits what will appear in output. Input validation will not always prevent XSS, especially if you are required to support free-form text fields that could contain arbitrary characters. For example, in a chat application, the heart emoticon (<3) would likely pass the validation step, since it is commonly used. However, it cannot be directly inserted into the web page because it contains the < character, which would need to be escaped or otherwise handled. In this case, stripping the < might reduce the risk of XSS, but it would produce incorrect behavior because the emoticon would not be recorded. This might seem to be a minor inconvenience, but it would be more important in a mathematical forum that wants to represent inequalities. Even if you make a mistake in your validation (such as forgetting one out of 100 input fields), appropriate encoding is still likely to protect you from injection-based attacks. As long as it is not done in isolation, input validation is still a useful technique, since it may significantly reduce your attack surface, allow you to detect some attacks, and provide other security benefits that proper encoding does not address. Ensure that you perform input validation at well-defined interfaces within the application. This will help protect the application even if a component is reused or moved elsewhere.::PHASE:Architecture and Design:STRATEGY:Enforcement by Conversion:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:When the set of acceptable objects, such as filenames or URLs, is limited or known, create a mapping from a set of fixed input values (such as numeric IDs) to the actual filenames or URLs, and reject all other inputs.::PHASE:Operation:STRATEGY:Firewall:EFFECTIVENESS:Moderate:DESCRIPTION:Use an application firewall that can detect attacks against this weakness. It can be beneficial in cases in which the code cannot be fixed (because it is controlled by a third party), as an emergency prevention measure while more comprehensive software assurance measures are applied, or to provide defense in depth.::PHASE:Operation Implementation:STRATEGY:Environment Hardening:EFFECTIVENESS::DESCRIPTION:When using PHP, configure the application so that it does not use register_globals. During implementation, develop the application so that it does not rely on this feature, but be wary of implementing a register_globals emulation that is subject to weaknesses such as CWE-95, CWE-621, and similar issues.::
<h5>观察到的例子</h5>：：REFERENCE：CVE-2014-8958：DESCRIPTION：Admin GUI allows XSS through cookie.：LINK：http：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2014-8958REFERENCE：CVE-2017-9764：DESCRIPTION：Web stats program allows XSS through crafted HTTP header.：LINK：REFERENCE：CVE-2014-5198：DESCRIPTION：Web log analysis product allows XSS through crafted HTTP Referer header.：LINK：REFERENCE：CVE-2008-5080：DESCRIPTION：Chain：protection mechanism failure allows XSS：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-5080REFERENCE：CVE-2006-4308：DESCRIPTION：Chain：incomplete blacklist(CWE-184)only checks javascript：tag，allowing XSS(CWE-79)using other tags：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2006-4308REFERENCE：CVE-2007-5727：DESCRIPTION：Chain：incomplete blacklist(CWE-184)only removes SCRIPT tags，enabling XSS(CWE-79)：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2007-5727REFERENCE：CVE-2008-5770：DESCRIPTION：Reflected XSS using the PATH_INFO in a URL：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-5770REFERENCE：CVE-2008-4730：DESCRIPTION：Reflected XSS not properly handled when generating an error message：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-4730REFERENCE：CVE-2008-5734：DESCRIPTION：Reflected XSS sentthrough email message.：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-5734REFERENCE：CVE-2008-0971：DESCRIPTION：Stored XSS in a security product.：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-0971REFERENCE：CVE-2008-5249：DESCRIPTION：Stored XSS using a wiki page.：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2008-5249REFERENCE：CVE-2006-3568：DESCRIPTION：Stored XSS in a guestbook application.：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2006-3568REFERENCE：CVE-2006-3211：DESCRIPTION：Stored XSS in a guestbook application using a javascript：URI in a bbcode img tag.：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2006-3211REFERENCE：CVE-2006-3295：DESCRIPTION：Chain：library file is not protected against a direct request(CWE-425)，leading to reflected XSS(CWE-79).：LINK：https：//cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi？name=CVE-2006-3295
<h5>功能区域</h5>空
<h5>影响资源</h5>空
<h5>分类法映射</h5>TAXONOMY NAME：PLOVER：ENTRY NAME：Cross-site scripting(XSS)：TAXONOMY NAME：7 Pernicious Kingdoms：ENTRY NAME：Cross-site Scripting：TAXONOMY NAME：CLASP：ENTRY NAME：Cross-site scripting：TAXONOMY NAME：OWASP Top Ten 2007：ENTRY ID：A1：ENTRY NAME：Cross Site Scripting(XSS)：MAPPING FIT：Exact：TAXONOMY NAME：OWASP Top Ten 2004：ENTRY ID：A1：ENTRY NAME：Unvalidated Input：MAPPING FIT：CWE More Specific：TAXONOMY NAME：OWASP Top Ten 2004：ENTRY ID：A4：ENTRY NAME：Cross-Site Scripting(XSS)Flaws：MAPPING FIT：Exact：TAXONOMY NAME：WASC：ENTRY ID：8：ENTRY NAME：Cross-site Scripting：TAXONOMY NAME：Software Fault Patterns：ENTRY ID：SFP24：ENTRY NAME：Tainted input to command：：
<h5>相关的攻击模式</h5>*209：588：591：592：63：85：
<h5>笔记</h5>类型：关系：注意：XSS和CSRF之间可能有密切的关系(CWE-352).攻击者可能使用CSRF来欺骗受害者向请求中包含XSS有效负载的服务器提交请求。一个众所周知的例子就是MySpace上的Samy蠕虫[参考文献956]。该蠕虫使用XSS将恶意HTML序列插入到用户配置文件中，并将攻击者添加为MySpace好友。然后，该受害者的MySpace朋友将执行有效负载来修改他们自己的配置文件，从而导致蠕虫成倍地传播。由于受害者本身并没有故意插入恶意脚本，CSRF是一个根本原因。：类型：适用平台：注意：XSS缺陷在Web应用程序中非常常见，因为它们需要大量的开发人员纪律来避免它们。

